Google's AI is secretly scoring your
brand's trustworthiness. Every single
piece of content you publish either
raises or lowers that score. And if your
score drops too low, you appear less in
the search results. In this video, I'm
going to show you exactly how to check
your score and repair it before it's too
late. I'm Neil Patel and I've helped
brands generate millions of revenue
through Google. And now we're helping
clients adapt to the biggest shift in
search since the algorithm was invented.
Let's get started. Chapter one, the
invisible scoring system. If you've been
watching your traffic flight line where
you're ranking on page one, your AI
trust score is a reason why. Imagine
you're a loan officer. Two people walk
in with identical credit scores, but one
has consistent income across multiple
sources, solid references, and stable
history. The other sketchy employment,
conflicting information, no references,
who gets the loan? So, just like the
financial institutions use credit scores
to determine your creditworthiness,
Google's AI uses trust scores to
determine your brand's worthiness. Now,
Google doesn't just give you a little
number you can check. You won't see Neil
Patel press score 750. But just like
credit scores, there are clear signals
that show whether you're trusted or not.
Your rankings, your citations, whether
you show up in AI overviews or get
ignored completely. All of it points to
one thing. How much Google's AI actually
trusts your brand. So, how do you know
if your brand is trusted by AI or
silently filtered out? One of the
clearest signals is this. Are you
getting cited by AI tools like Google,
Chat GBT, and Perplexity when people ask
questions in your space? Our team
analyzed 1.5 million AI generated
answers to find out what content
actually gets cited and what gets left
behind. The results were clear. Blogs
account for 44 to 65% of all citations,
but not just any blogs, only the ones
the AI trusts. That trust comes down to
five core factors. And these are the
exact signals Google uses to determine
whether you deserve to show up or
disappear. Factor one, EAT signals, also
known as E, experience, expertise,
authority, and trustworthiness. Are you
sharing real results or just
regurgitated theory? Do you have actual
credentials or just good SEO? Factor
two, crossplatform consistency. When
people look you up on LinkedIn, YouTube,
or even your website, do they see
content from you at all? And if you do
have content and you're consistent on
those platforms, is your advice similar
or are you contradictory to the advice
you give on some of the other platforms?
Because if you are contradicting
yourself, that could potentially
negatively impact you. Factor three,
engagement patterns. Google watches how
people interact with your content. Are
they sticking around or are they fleeing
your site like it's on fire? Factor
four, citation graph. Are reputable
sites linking to you? Are people
mentioning you in forums like Reddit or
even industry discussions? that builds
your semantic reputation. Basically, how
AI learns how to associate your name
with a specific topic or even industry.
Factor five, technical trust signals.
This is the behindthescenes stuff like
schema markup, structured data, and
consistent author names. Basically, it's
how you label your content so AI can
understand what it's about, who wrote
it, and whether you're credible. If that
structure is missing, the algorithm gets
confused or ignores you completely. Now,
here's a reality check. Our analysis of
9 million content pages shows that
traditional SEO content is now only 41%
effective. But content optimized for AI
trust signals is 91% harder to create.
And that's exactly what separates the
winners from the losers. And here's the
scary part. Most businesses are
destroying their AI trust score without
even realizing it. So how do you know if
your brand's already in the danger zone?
Let me walk you through the same
5-minute audit we run our clients
through that shows exactly where your
score stands and what's holding you
back. So, you want to know what your
trust score actually looks like. Good,
because what I'm about to show you will
either confirm your worst fears or
reveal why your competitors are suddenly
outranking you. Let's run a quick five
trust score audit. Test one, the
consistency check. Right now, open a tab
and search your company's name plus your
expertise. For example, Luna Labs sleep
tracker or velour skin anti-aging serum.
What do you see? Multiple content types,
blog posts, videos, social mentions, is
it just your homepage and tumble weeds
or do you also see your homepage,
Amazon, and a lot of other websites that
talk about your products and services?
If Google only knows you from one place,
that's not authority. That's
invisibility with a website. Test two,
the authority reality check. Search your
expertise area without your brand name.
For example, best sleep trackers or top
retinal serums for sensitive skin. Do
you appear anywhere? More importantly,
are you in the AI overviews at the top?
If you're not showing up when people
search your expertise, your score needs
work. Test three, the engagement truth.
Open Google Analytics. What's your
bounce rate over the last 90 days? Above
70%, Google's watching people just flee
your content. Under a minute session
time, when your competitors are all over
a minute, your trust score just knows
that. Test four, the citation reality.
Now head back to Google and search your
brand name in quotes plus a word like
expert review or says. For example, Luna
Labs plus expert or skin plus reviews.
Are other websites mentioning you,
quoting you, citing you as a source? If
there's nothing there, you're not just
missing back links, you're missing
proof. No citation means no authority
signal in the eyes of AI. Test five, the
technical check. Use Google's rich
results test. Can Google identify who
wrote the content and their expertise?
If not, you're missing critical trust
infrastructure. Now, taking all this
into consideration, here's what a
healthy score would look like. You
appear in AI overviews, get cited by
reputable sources, people engage with
your content, and your messaging is
consistent everywhere. So, how did your
audit go? If you're like most people,
you've gotten a few green lights and a
few red flags. But here's where almost
everyone goes wrong. They try to fix
everything at once, or worse, they start
in the wrong place. Let me show you the
exact sequence that actually works.
Because this part, it's what separates a
short-term bump from long-term
dominance.
If your auto reveal problems, don't
panic. What I'm about to share is the
exact system we use to repair client
scores. Some have gone from invisible to
leaders in their space in under 90 days.
Most within a year, though. Repair
strategy one. Answer first content
architect. Here's the secret. Google AI
rewards direct answers. Take the exact
question people are typing and use it as
your heading. Then answer immediately.
No fluff, no three paragraph windup,
just straight up an answer. Our analysis
of 500,000 Google AI overviews proves
this. 44% of citations came from blog
style articles that answer questions
directly. Repair strategy 2,
experience-based authority. Stop giving
theoretical advice. Share real examples,
actual results, specific insights. Only
someone with real experience would know.
AI can generate generic advice all day.
It can't replicate your personal wins,
failures, and battle tested strategies.
Repair strategy 3, crossplatform message
alignment. Create a message foundation
document, your core beliefs, unique
methodology, key advice. Then ensure
every piece of content, whether it's
LinkedIn, YouTube, blog post, forms,
aligns with this foundation. Consistency
signals authority. Contradiction signals
confusion. Repair strategy four,
strategic citation building. Don't just
create content on your platforms.
Contribute to industry publications.
Join expert roundups and provide
journalistic quotes. Every reputable
citation reinforces your authority
across Google's entire AI ecosystem.
Repair strategy five, technical trust
infrastructure. Implement schema markup
for articles, author bios, and brand
info. Ensure consistent author names
across platforms. Add structured data so
AI systems can easily understand your
expertise. This creates machine readable
structure that helps AI systems better
understand your content and expertise,
which supports your overall authority
signals. So, you fix the foundation.
Good. But here's the thing no one warns
you about. Your trust score is always
decaying.
If you're not active and you're not
actively reinforcing it, the algorithm
starts forgetting about you and they
start focusing on your competition who's
active and they're building up all the
positive trust signals. Let me show you
how our top performing clients stay
trusted month after month. You repaired
your trust score. But now comes the real
challenge. Keeping it high while
competitors try to knock you down.
Here's what our top performing clients
use to stay dominant. Maintain strategy
one. The question authority system.
Instead of asking what keyword should I
target, ask what specific question do I
want to be known for answering? Then
create comprehensive content that
addresses that question better than
anyone else. When you're consistently
providing the best answers, Google's AI
remembers you as a go-to source.
Maintenance strategy two, trust signal
monitoring. Track these monthly. Your
appearance and AI overviews for
expertise topics. Citations from
reputable sources. Session duration and
bounce rate. Crossplatform message
consistency. When any metric drops, your
score needs attention. Maintenance
strategy three, authority network
building. Build relationships with other
trusted industry voices. When you
consistently collaborate with and get
mentioned by high trusted brands, it
reinforces your authority. Google's AI
sees these connections and uses them to
validate your expertise. Maintain
strategy four, unique value creation.
Create interactive tools. AI overviews
can't replicate. Calculators,
assessments, ROI tools, compatibility
checkers, whatever works for your
industry. While everyone competes for
tech citations, you're creating
experiences that require site visits and
engagement. Okay, so now you've done all
the hard work, built the authority,
earned the citations, showed up in AI
results. But here's the reality. This
itself won't grow your business. If you
don't know how to turn trust into
revenue, you'll stay stuck at visible
but broke. Let me show you how to build
the bridge from credibility to
customers.
A high trust score drives traffic. But
trust alone doesn't pay bills. Winning
businesses don't just get more visitors,
they get visitors ready to buy. This is
what I call trust to revenue bridge
system. Step one, teach first, then
bridge deliver genuine value upfront.
Answer their question completely. Solve
their immediate problem thoroughly. This
builds trust foundation. Once you've
established trust, build the bridge to
your solution. Step two, natural
progression method. After providing
valuable content, mention how this
connects to deeper systematic
approaches. This strategy will help you
grow your lists. But if you want to
scale to thousands consistently, you'll
need systematic approach most businesses
miss. That's exactly what we help
businesses build. Email marketing system
that consistently generate revenue. Step
three, authoritybased call to actions.
Every piece should end with a clear,
relevant next step. The key, making your
CTA feel like a natural continuation of
the value provided. When people see that
you're a trusted authority thinks you're
high trust score, they're much more
likely to work with you directly. Step
four, cross score multiplier effect. As
your score improves, you'll notice that
higher conversion rates on CTAs, more
inbound leads from AI powered search
like chat GPT, better email
deliverability, engagement, increased
referrals and word of mouth, your
improved scores don't just drive more
traffic, it drives higher quality
traffic that converts. Here's the
opportunity. Our survey shows that 79 to
92% of businesses still aren't
optimizing for AI engines. If you're
starting to implement these strategies
now, you're ahead of almost everyone in
your industry. Your brand's AI trust
score is being calculated right now.
Every piece of content, every platform,
every citation contributes to this
invisible system determining your
visibility. Businesses that understand
and actively improve this scoring will
dominate their industries. Those that
ignore will fade into digital obscurity.
The AI revolution isn't coming. It's
here. Your trust score is either working
for you or against you. If you want
Google's AI to recommend your brand
instead of your competitors, watch this
next. I'll show you exactly how to train
it to send high intent buyers straight
to you.